# Conda-build recipes

<div class="contents" local="" depth="2">

</div>

To enable building [conda
packages](https://conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/concepts/packages.html),
`install and update conda
and conda-build <install-conda-build>`.

Building a conda package requires a recipe. Enable building [conda
packages](https://conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/concepts/packages.html),
`install and update conda
and conda-build <install-conda-build>`. A conda-build recipe is a flat
directory that contains the following files:

-   `meta.yaml`---A file that contains all the metadata in the recipe.
    Only `package/name` and `package/version` are required.
-   `build.sh`---The script that installs the files for the package on
    macOS and Linux. It is executed using the `bash` command.
-   `bld.bat`---The build script that installs the files for the package
    on Windows. It is executed using `cmd`.
-   `run_test.[py,pl,sh,bat]`---An optional Python test file, a test
    script that runs automatically if it is part of the recipe.
-   Optional patches that are applied to the source.
-   Other resources that are not included in the source and cannot be
    generated by the build scripts. Examples are icon files, readme
    files and build notes.

<div class="tip">

<div class="title">

Tip

</div>

When you use the <span class="title-ref">conda skeleton
\<skeleton_ref\></span> command, the first 3 files---`meta.yaml`,
`build.sh`, and `bld.bat`---are automatically generated for you.

</div>

## Conda-build process

`conda-build` performs the following steps:

1.  Reads the metadata.
2.  Downloads the source into a cache.
3.  Extracts the source into the source directory.
4.  Applies any patches.
5.  Re-evaluates the metadata, if source is necessary to fill any
    metadata values.
6.  Creates a build environment and then installs the build dependencies
    there.
7.  Runs the build script. The current working directory is the source
    directory with environment variables set. The build script installs
    into the build environment.
8.  Performs some necessary post-processing steps, such as shebang and
    rpath.
9.  Creates a conda package containing all the files in the build
    environment that are new from step 5, along with the necessary conda
    package metadata.
10. Tests the new conda package if the recipe includes tests:
    1.  Deletes the build environment.
    2.  Creates a test environment with the package and its
        dependencies.
    3.  Runs the test scripts.

The [conda-recipes](https://github.com/continuumio/conda-recipes) repo
contains example recipes for many conda packages.

<div class="caution">

<div class="title">

Caution

</div>

All recipe files, including `meta.yaml` and build scripts, are included
in the final package archive that is distributed to users. Be careful
not to put sensitive information such as passwords into recipes where it
could be made public.

</div>

The <span class="title-ref">conda skeleton \<skeleton_ref\></span>
command can help to make skeleton recipes for common repositories, such
as [PyPI](https://pypi.python.org/pypi).

## Deep dive

Let's take a closer look at how conda-build uses a recipe to create a
package.

### Templates

When you build a conda package, conda-build renders the package by
reading a template in the meta.yaml. See `jinja-templates`.

Templates are filled in using your conda-build config, which shows the
matrix of things to build against. The `conda build config` determines
how many builds it has to do. For example, defining a
conda_build_config.yaml of the form and filling it defines a matrix of 4
packages to build:

    foo:
      - 1.0
      - 2.0
    bar:
      - 1.2.0
      - 1.4.0

After this, conda-build determines what the outputs will be. For
example, if your `conda build config` indicates that you want two
different versions of Python, conda-build will show you the rendering
for each Python version.

### Environments

To build the package, conda-build will make an environment for you and
install all of the build and run dependencies in that environment.
Conda-build will indicate where you can successfully build the package.
The prefix will take the form:

    <path to conda>/conda-bld/<package name and string>/h_env_placeholder…

[Conda-forge](https://anaconda.org/conda-forge) downloads your package
source and then builds the conda package in the context of the build
environment. For example, you may direct it to download from a Git repo
or pull down a tarball from another source. See the `source-section` for
more information.

What conda-build puts into a package depends on what you put into the
build, host, or run sections. See the `requirements` for more
information. Conda-build will use this information to identify
dependencies to link to and identify the run requirements for the
package. This allows conda-build to understand what is needed to install
the package.

### Building

Once the content is downloaded, conda-build runs the build step. See the
`meta-build` for more information. The build step runs a script. It can
be one that you provided. See the `build-script` section for more
information.

If you do not define the script section, then you can create a build.sh
or a bld.bat file to be run.

### Prefix replacement

When the build environment is created, it is in a placeholder prefix.
When the package is all bundled up, the prefix is set to a dummy prefix.
When conda is ready to install the package, it rewrites the dummy prefix
with the correct one.

### Testing

Once a package is built, conda-build will test it. To do this, it
creates another environment and installs the conda package. The form of
this prefix is:

    <path to conda>/conda-bld/<package name + string>/_test_env_placeholder…

At this point, conda-build has all of the info from the meta.yaml about
what its runtime dependencies are, so those dependencies are installed
as well. This generates a test runner script with a reference to the
testing meta.yaml that is created. See the `meta-test` for more
information. That file is run for testing.

### Output metadata

After the package is built and tested, conda-build cleans up the
environments created prior and outputs the metadata. The recipe for the
package is also added in the output metadata. The metadata directory is
on the top level of the tarball in the `info` directory. The metadata
contains information about the dependencies of the package and a list of
where all of the files in the package go when it is installed. Conda
reads that metadata when it needs to install.

Running `conda install` causes conda to:

> -   reach out to the repo data containing the dependencies,
> -   guess the right dependencies,
> -   install a list of packages,
> -   unpack the tarball to look at the info,
> -   verify the file based on metadata in the package, and then
> -   go through each file in the package and puts it in the right
>     location.

## More information

Review `../resources/define-metadata` to see a breakdown of the
components of a recipe, including:

> -   package name
> -   package version
> -   descriptive metadata
> -   where to obtain source code
> -   how to test the package
